Initial draft (#407)
swan-io/docs: changelog/2025/2025-09-03.mdx

---
title: 3 September 2025
type: release
---

## New features

> 📖 We've added a new [**Preview** section]() to our API documentation, giving you early access to upcoming and beta features. 

Author: ```suggestion
📖 We've added a new [**Preview** section](/preview) to our API documentation, giving you early access to upcoming and beta features. 
```

> 📖 We've added a new [**Preview** section](https://docs.swan.io/preview/) to our API documentation, giving you early access to upcoming and beta features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📖 Get a head start on what's next. We've added a [**Preview** section](https://docs.swan.io/preview/) to our documentation, giving you early access to our features. Use these previews to plan your future roadmap. Note that functionality may change before the official release.
```
Can we make it more value proppy?

Preview features help you prepare for future releases. Keep in mind the exact implementation may change before official launch.

## Improvements

⏹️ You can now [cancel merchant SEPA Direct Debit payments](/topics/merchants/online/sdd/#canceling) using the `cancelMerchantPayment` mutation. 

> Check the `availableToCancel` balance to determine if a specific payment can be canceled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the `availableToCancel` balance to check if a specific payment can be canceled.
```
Similar wording to what we already have in the docs - simpler.

> 🔍 You can now verify whether scheduled account funding transactions are eligible for [cancellation](/topics/accounts/funding/#canceling) using the `isCancelable` field.

Author: ```suggestion
🔍 You can verify whether scheduled account funding transactions are eligible for [cancellation](/topics/accounts/funding/#canceling) using [the `isCancelable` field](/topics/accounts/funding/#canceling).
```

> 🔍 You can verify whether scheduled account funding transactions are eligible for [cancellation](/topics/accounts/funding/#canceling) using the `isCancelable` field.

Reviewer: Is there a reason why we always say "You can" to start these? Could it just be: 
```suggestion
🔍 Use the `isCancelable` field to verify whether scheduled account funding transactions are eligible for [cancellation](/topics/accounts/funding/#canceling).
```

## API updates

### Upcoming breaking changes

🔄 Starting **October 1st**, we're removing the `paymentId` field from the `initiateSepaDirectDebitMerchantPayment` mutation. 
Instead, retrieve the ID from the `merchantPayment` field, which now returns the Merchant Payment object.

> We're also deprecating the `paymentId` field.

Reviewer: Does this mean the paymenID field is being deprecated as a whole? Does it impact other mutations that we need to list here?

> ⚖️ Starting **October 31st**, the `taxIdentificationNumber` will be mandatory at onboarding when the `accountCountry` and the account holder's residency address country don't match, due to [CRS regulation](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/topics/policy-issue-focus/aeoi/jersey-guidance-notes-crs.pdf) requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚖️ Starting **October 31st**, the `taxIdentificationNumber` will be mandatory at onboarding when the `accountCountry` and the account holder's residency address country don't match, due to [Common Reporting Standard (CRS) regulations](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/topics/policy-issue-focus/aeoi/jersey-guidance-notes-crs.pdf).
```

> ⚖️ Starting **October 31st**, the `taxIdentificationNumber` will be mandatory at onboarding when the `accountCountry` and the account holder's residency address country don't match, due to [CRS regulation](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/topics/policy-issue-focus/aeoi/jersey-guidance-notes-crs.pdf) requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚖️ Starting **October 31st**, the `taxIdentificationNumber` will be mandatory during onboarding when the `accountCountry` and the account holder's residency address country don't match, due to [CRS regulation](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/topics/policy-issue-focus/aeoi/jersey-guidance-notes-crs.pdf) requirements.
```
Starting **October 31, 2025**, the `taxIdentificationNumber` will be a mandatory field at onboarding when an account holder's residency country does not match the `accountCountry`. This is to comply with [CRS (Common Reporting Standard) regulations](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/topics/policy-issue-focus/aeoi/jersey-guidance-notes-crs.pdf).
